Intro: "HPC hardware designed to use GPUs", awkward phrasing, the GPU are        
themselves the HPC hardware. I would consider breaking this into two sentences:  
1) MC simulations take up a lot of computing resources 2) GPUs have become the   
primary HPC hardware over the past decade due to lower power consumption, and    
software design and algorithms must be changed to adapt.                         

Intro/Section 2: Depending your audience, consider clarifying GPU-specific terms 
such as "CUDA-compatible", "on-device", etc.                                     

Section 2: In general this whole section becomes pretty dense. I would           
recommend very explicitly summarizing the overarching ideas of of Sections 2.1   
-- 2.4 in at the beginning of Section 2, that way readers have a better idea     
what they should be paying attention to as they dive into each of these          
subsections.                                                                     

Section 2: Consider mentioning that you are using event-based, rather than       
history-based MC.                                                                

Section 2.1: "is analogous [to]"                                                 

Section 2.3: Considering adding one more clause to the first sentence to         
spell out why it is useful to differentiate between persistent/dynamics data.    

Section 2.1: I am not sure what the semicolon means in \gamma(M; k). I would     
also advise against in-text equations.                                           

Figure 2: Put a box around the entire interaction kernel, not just vertical      
lines.                                                                           

Section 3: XXX @tme please add a couple of sentences                             

Section 3: I would use an itemize rather than enumerate for the list of          
changes, then include the numbers in the legend of Figure 5. This makes going    
back and forth between the text and figure easier.                               

Figure 5: Move the legend to the left of the the plot, i.e.                      
bbox_to_anchor=(1.1, 0.5), I think.                                              

Section 3: You make the argument that splitting into 2 kernels is worth the      
negative performance for an increase in flexibility. Are there any changes that  
you will not keep? It would be nice to have a series on Figure 5 with only the   
changes you plan on keeping.                                                     

Section 4: "Nascent" and "a work in progress" are redundant.
